Before you start converting your dataset to SCEA format, you will need to decide if the dataset is eligible for SCEA.

### Project level eligibility criteria

- The dataset has been submitted to HCA DCP. You will need the project uuid and HCA DCP release date as input to the script.

### Technology type eligibility criteria

- The dataset consists of data generated by at least 1 type of single-cell RNA sequencing technology in the following list of eligible technology types: 10X v2, 10X v3, Drop-seq, Smart-seq2, Smart-like, Seq-Well
  
- The dataset consists of data generated from at most 1 single-cell RNA sequencing technology type. If the data is derived from more than 1 single-cell sequencing type, the dataset must be split into datasets separated by technology type and with separate E-HCAD-ids.

- Bulk RNA sequencing libraries are not eligible.

- If the dataset consists of 10X visium technology, it is eligible but please put the ticket in the stalled column until we have an SOP ready to for the curation of 10X visium data. The hca-to-scea tool does not currently support this technology type.

### Sample type eligibility criteria

- The dataset consists of data generated from at most 1 species. If the data is derived from more than 1 species, the dataset must be split into datasets separated by species and with separate E-HCAD-ids.

- If the dataset consists of organoid or iPSC sample types, it is eligible but please put the ticket in the stalled column until we have an SOP ready for this sample type. The hca-to-scea tool does not yet reliably support these sample types.

- Cell lines other than iPSC, hESC or organoid are not eligible e.g. 2D immortalised cell lines.

### Protocol type eligibility criteria

- Experiments involving cell-type enrichment using cell markers are eligible. However, the script does not currently support the addition list of the sample cell marker status. See below for guidance on how to manually add the cell marker status to the output sdrf file.

- Experiments involving treatment with a drug, stimulus or other treatment type are eligible. However, the script does not currently support the addition list of this protocol type or treatment status. See below for guidance on how to manually add a treatment protocol type and treatment status to the output idf file and sdrf file, respectively.

- Experiments involving a differentiation protocol are eligible. However, the script does not currently support the addition of this protocol type. See below for guidance on how to mnually add a differentiation protocol to the output idf file.

### Data availability criteria

- The full path to fastq files or SRA object files is available for the dataset run accessions. Datasets with only raw data in bam file format are not currently eligible.
